# Debatrix

# What is Debatrix

Debatrix is a AI integrated debate social media. It is a place where there are no echo chambers and algorithms to hide content and show arugments you agree with. It is transparent for all users such that they can display their point of view clearly and argue their own.

The main features include

- Account creation and authentication with profile pictures
- Creation of Debate Threads
- Commenting on debates and commenting on comments for arguments
- AI Integrated Summary
- Pinning Debates
- Searching Debates
- View Trending Debates

# Installation Instructions

First step is to clone the repository into your local machine using

```bash
git clone https://github.sydney.edu.au/2024-INTERNET-SOFTWARE-PLATFORM/Lab-03-Group-06.git

```

## Backend Setup

1. **Install Virtual Environment**

   ```bash
   pip install virtualenv

   ```

2. **Create Virtual Environment**

   ```bash
   python -m venv myenv

   ```

3. **Run your Virtual Environment**
   On Mac

   ```bash
   source myenv/bin/activate

   ```

   On Windows

   ```bash
   source myenv/bin/activate

   ```

4. **Install all requirements**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt

   ```

5. **Run ollama**

   ```bash
    ollama serve

   ```

6. **Load Database from dump file**

   ```bash
   cd backend
   cd debatrix
   sqlite3 db.sqlite3 < db_dump.sql
   ```

7. **Run Server**
   Create new terminal and activate environment using step 3. After, go into debatrix directory and runserver.

   ```bash
    cd backend
    cd debatrix
    python3 manage.py runserver
   ```

## Frontend Setup

1. **Navigate to frontend directory**
   Create a new terminal and activate environment using step 3. After, go into frontend directory

   ```bash
    cd frontend
   ```

2. **Install front end requirements**

   ```bash
    npm install
   ```

3. **Build the frontend**

   ```bash
    npm run build
   ```

4. **Start frontend**

   ```bash
    npm run start
   ```

5. **Navigate to link provided**
   A link will be provided in which you type in the browser.

# API ENDPOINTS

## For API App

api/ admin/
api/ debates/ [name='debates']

Description: Retrieves a list of all debates.
Method: GET
Response:

```
    {
        "debateId": "1",
        "title": "Title",
        "content": "Content",
        "creatorUserName": "Username",
        "created_at": "2024-10-24T05:40:38.666872Z",
        "percentage": 0,
        "numOfPercentages": 0,
        "numberComments": 4,
        "percentages": [
        ]
    }, // all other debates
```

api/ save_debate/ [name='save_debate']

Description: Saves debate into database
Method: POST

api/ comments/ [name='comments']
Description: Retrieves all comments for all debates.
Method: GET
Response:

```
{
        "comment_id": 1,
        "parent_debate": 1,
        "user": null,
        "username": "username",
        "profilepicture": profilepic,
        "parent_comment": null,
        "date": "2024-10-24T05:40:43.756959Z",
        "content": "content",
        "num_likes": 0,
        "depth": 0
    }, // all other comments
```

api/ run_llm/ [name='run_llm']

Description: Runs a language model to process some input (e.g., for AI-powered assistance)
Method: POST

api/ debates/<int:debate_id>/ [name='delete_debate']

Description: Deletes a specific debate by its ID
Method: DELETE

api/ add_percentage/ [name='add_percentage']

Description: Adds or updates a percentage value for a debate.
Method: POST

api/ average_percentage/<str:debate_id>/ [name='average_percentage']

Description: Retrieves the average percentage for a given debate.
Method: GET

api/ get_percentage/ [name='get_percentage']

Description: Retrieves the percentage value for a given debate.
Method: GET

api/ pin_debate [name='pin_debate']

Description: Pins a debate, making it appear at the top of the debate list.
Method: POST

api/ get_pinned_debates/ [name='get_pinned_debates']

Description: Retrieves a list of all pinned debates.
Method: GET

api/ unpin_debate [name='unpin_debate']

Description: Unpins a debate, removing it from the top of the debate list.
Method: POST

api/ get_ai_comment/ [name='get_ai_comment']

Description: Retrieves a comment generated by an AI model for a specific debate.
Method: GET

## For Auth App

auth/ signup/ [name='signup']

Description: Displays a sign-up form where users can create an account.
Method: GET

auth/ login/ [name='login']

Description: Displays a login form for users to authenticate.
Method: GET

auth/ auth_register/ [name='register']

Description: API endpoint for registering a new user account.
Method: POST

auth/ auth_login/ [name='login_api']

Description: API endpoint for user login. This endpoint accepts credentials and returns an authentication token upon successful login.
Method: POST

auth/ user_profile/ [name='profile_api']

Description: API endpoint to retrieve the profile information of the authenticated user.
Method: GET

auth/ update_profile_picture/ [name='update_profile_picture']

Description: API endpoint to update the profile picture of the authenticated user.
Method: POST

auth/ userprofilebyUsername/<str:username>/ [name='userprofilebyUsername']

Description: API endpoint to retrieve the profile information of a user by their username.
Method: GET

# KNOWN BUGS

- Cant create comments after deleting debate because the debateId does not increment right after
- There is a error is the console when you use the agreement slider as database is being accessed multiple times but the feature works
- The replies of comments dont have profile pictures

# Testing:

Testing was performed in a separate branch. To switch to testing branch just run:

   ```bash
   git checkout test

   ```

## Backend Testing
   - **Run**

   ```bash
   python3 manage.py test

   ```
   - **Run with coverage report**

   ```bash
   coverage run manage.py test
   ```
   - **Get coverage report**

   ```bash
   coverage report
   ```

   
 ## Frontend Testing with Selenium 

   - Running:
   With the whole application already running and the requirements.txt installed, simply run the file in the frontend: 

   ```bash
   python3 test_selenium_frontend.py 
   ```
   
   If webdriver is not supported by Chrome: 
   - An alternative solution is to use the Safari webdriver.  **Safari > Settings, SELECT Show Develop menu in menu bar > Develop in the menu bar > Allow Remote Automation**. In the test_selenium_frontend.py, substitute the cls.driver by commenting the current cls.driver and uncomment the cls.driver below for SAFARI.
